The hip is a ball and socket joint.
The socket is part of your pelvis, or hip bone.
The ball is located at the top
of your femur, or thighbone.
Both are covered with a layer of smooth cartilage
that cushions and protects your bones when you move.
A total hip replacement, or arthroplasty,
is a surgical procedure to remove damaged portions
of your hip joint and replace them
with plastic and metal implants.
To begin the procedure,
your surgeon will make an incision
over the front or side of your hip
then smooth and reshape the socket.
Your surgeon will place a metal cup
into the prepared socket of the hip joint.
The cup may be attached with surgical cement
or the outside of the cup may be rough to help
bone grow
into its surface to lock it in place.
Sometimes surgeons use a combination
of glue and a rough cup.
The cup has a plastic or ceramic liner
that works like cartilage as you move.
Your surgeon will remove the damaged
ball-shaped head of your femur, or thighbone,
and implant a metal stem.
Your surgeon will then attach a metal ball
to the stem which fits into the cup in the pelvis.
Together, these components replace
your ball and socket joint.
Like all surgeries,
risks and complications are possible.
Your surgeon will explain these to you.